---
title: Bookshelf Project, Week Nine
date: 2017-03-05 00:00:00 Z
layout: post
---

## Bradley-Bronte

**Books read:** 2

**Title:** _Stormqueen!_

**Author:** Marion Zimmer Bradley

**Status:** Very much under the heading of 'your faves are problematic.' My _de facto_ godmother bought this for me when I was about ten. It was my first introduction to that level of sf/fantasy. I was a committed Trekkie by this point in my life, but most of my reading was confined to fantasy stories and historicals and Star Trek books. It took me a bit longer to really get into the wider world of SF/F, but I never looked back. Thinking about my favorite MZB books always brings up the issue of 'can you separate the artist from their art?' I don't really know the answer to that question. But I do know that because of its associations with my godmother and my childhood, I can't let this one go.

**Result:** Staying on the shelf.

---
**Title:** _Jane Eyre_

**Author:** Charlotte Bronte

**Status:** This edition has no copyright date. I always assumed it was quite old, based on the binding/typeface/paper. A little bit of research has revealed that the publishing house (Dean & Son, Ltd) was only at the location on the flyleaf (41/43 Ludgate Hill London) from 1933-1977. As I ~~stole~~ borrowed this copy from my mom, I presume it actually dates to the 1950/60s (A clever child would have just asked her mother when she got the book, but I have to make things complicated).

I honestly can't remember the first time I read _Jane Eyre_. Probably around the same time I read _Mansfield Park_/_Pride & Prejudice_ etc...4th grade or so. I reread this book relatively frequently (every couple of years or so), and every time I am by something different about it. Last time was how much Jane got gaslight-ed (gaslit?), this time it was the use of language, which reminded me a bit of Alcott (and how much of an ass St. John is).

**Result:** Back to the shelf.
